# 2.1 What a Rule Looks Like

A simple makefile consists of "rules" with the following shape:

```makefile
target … : prerequisites …
        recipe
        …
        …
```

A _target_ is usually the name of a file that is generated by a program;
examples of targets are executable or object files.
A target can also be the name of an action to carry out, such as `clean` (see [Phony Targets](./phony-targets)).

A _prerequisite_ is a file that is used as input to create the target.
A target often depends on several files.

A _recipe_ is an action that `make` carries out.
A recipe may have more than one command, either on the same line or each on its own line.
**Please note**: you need to put a tab character at the beginning of every recipe line!
This is an obscurity that catches the unwary.
If you prefer to prefix your recipes with a character other than tab, you can set the `.RECIPEPREFIX` variable to an alternate character (see [Other Special Variables](./special-variables)).

Usually a recipe is in a rule with prerequisites and serves to create a target file if any of the prerequisites change.
However, the rule that specifies a recipe for the target need not have prerequisites.
For example, the rule containing the delete command associated with the target `clean` does not have prerequisites.

A _rule_, then, explains how and when to remake certain files which are the targets of the particular rule.
`make` carries out the recipe on the prerequisites to create or update the target.
A rule can also explain how and when to carry out an action. See [Writing Rules](./rules).

A makefile may contain other text besides rules, but a simple makefile need only contain rules.
Rules may look somewhat more complicated than shown in this template, but all fit the pattern more or less.
